In this lesson, we'll look at how registered domain names are pointed to Web sites servers.
You'll learn how name servers point all traffic together and concede the DNS controls and records to
another location.
By the end of this video, you'll understand the common use of name servers and how they work using
a simple site ground hosting example.
Let's talk about domains and pointing them correctly to your website, hosting and ways to point traffic
for different purposes like email.
Separately, from the website traffic that you want to go to your website host looking at the, well,
average WP framework here.
This is where we are focusing right up here at the domain name and the DNS control here in this segment
and this section of the course when we say, start here, you know, make this a little bit bigger so
you guys can see it better when we say, start here.
The domain name is something that you register and rent.
Honestly, you don't own that, but you register it from a domain authority and a registrar.
And there are a lot of different registrars, some of whom are resellers and mark up their costs and
some who are more directly connected and give you at cost.
Domain names and domain names represent a name, plus an extension.
So in this example, you is the domain name and dot com is the extension, and dot com is, of course,
the most popular domain extension and is something that you should seek out as far as finding a domain
name for a business of yours or for clients.
It's best to recommend that you find the shortest domain that's easiest to spell at a dot com extension.
Now, there are appropriate reasons for using a different extension.
Something like dot net is pretty popular as well.
If the dot com extension is something that's already taken and you really need to have your business
name in a certain way.
You can settle for a different domain extension.
There are other vanity extensions like a Dot online or dot cloud.
Other domain extensions that are available, they cost a little bit more, and sometimes they're usable.
For example, in my business website for client web sites, I have a business company name called Up
Draft Media, and I got that name because I was able to find a domain at the Dot media extension.
My business name for collecting payments and and charging for website care and projects is up draft
dot media.
Now, that's not something that I would really use if it was a part of my branding, and I really needed
to be up draft media as a visible brand and recognizable brand that I would be marketing because people
would invariably try to navigate to up draft media dot, which is something that is a great domain name,
but not something that I own.
And so I settled for up draft media because it works for me, and I'm basically just sending links out
to clients.
At that point, but domain names wise, you can.
There are a number of different places to purchase and register domain names and then directly from
your registrar, you can point domain names right to the website.
Hosting went to the website hosting, I should say.
And there are two ways to point websites to a web host.
Now one is called name servers and name servers point directly to the website host, and they point
all of the traffic and they transfer the DNS control to wherever you're pointing the name servers.
And so, for an example, in a simple, simple example, if we look at site ground account here.
If I were to look at the dashboard for this veil Sinochem site, it's one of my client sites.
You can see that I have a reference over here and recite information for the site, IP address and the
site name servers.
And so if I wanted to, if I registered that domain name somewhere like GoDaddy.com, for example,
I could just define at GoDaddy these name servers within the domain name settings and then all the traffic,
including email traffic, website traffic and everything would go to the site ground hosting area.
And in that case, and the DNS would be managed over here under domain DNS zone at.
Here at site ground, and so in that case, the DNS records and these are all here because this was
the original setup when I had, you know, Vale Sinochem registered at GoDaddy, where I've registered
domains a lot in the past.
I use name servers to point to site ground and then site ground defines the a record, for example,
which would point the domain name itself right here.
Here's the domain name under a name and it isn't a record, and it records always point to IP addresses.
And so this a record points to the IP address.
And then you can also form a C name record to point the UWW version over to that same address.
And in that way, sea name records go to domain names themselves.
And so this basically points to that same name.
If someone were to point their browser to UWW, that veil sidecar, then it would just redirect right
to Vail signed dot com without the WS.
And then the internet knows to bring that website traffic to this IP address, and this IP address is
managed by Sacrum, the website host, and it's defined right here.